# 3. lnd-gateway

`lnd-gateway` is a microservice that sets up a small websocket server and uses
it to proxy a limited set of gRPC requests to `lnd`.

1. [Overview](#Overview)
    1. [Dockerfile](#Dockerfile)
    2. [docker-compose](#DockerCompose)
    3. [Environment](#Environment)
    4. [Startup Script](#StartupScript)
    5. [Command Line](#CommandLine)
2. [Running in Development](#RunningInDevelopment)

<a name="Overview" />

## 1. Overview

When we get our website up and running, we're going to want a way to generate
Lightning invoices so that we can display them as a QR code to the user.

Generating the invoice and detecting when we receive a payment for it are
things that happen inside of `lnd`. `lnd` lets you create an invoice and has a
callback for payment detection through its gRPC interface.

But web browsers don't generally make gRPC requests. They make http REST
requests. (GET, POST, that kind of thing.) Browsers also support websockets
for more realtime, 2-way, streaming communication between client and server.

So rather than make the browser try to talk to `lnd` directly, we'd like to
make a little middleman process. This middleman process will let web browsers
connect to it through websockets, will receive their requests for payment
invoice generation, and forward them to `lnd` through gRPC. It will also do the
reverse: listen to `lnd` through its gRPC callback stream and broadcast payment
detection back to the browser through its websocket connection.

In addition to being a translator between websockts and gRPC, having a
middleman service is important because it allows us to keep any gRPC-related
credentials for `lnd` a secret, not exposed to the browser. We can also keep
our `lnd` instance exposed only to our other processes, and not the whole
internet, which is great for security and control.

<a name="Dockerfile" />

### 1.1 Dockerfile

Take a look at `services/lnd-gateway/Dockerfile`.

All this Dockerfile does is set up a node environment, copies the
`package.json` file and installs dependencies, then copies our app files. It
also exposes a port on the container.

<a name="DockerCompose" />

### 1.2 docker-compose

Let's take a look at the root-level `docker-compose.yaml`, where we'll find an
entry for `lnd-gateway` that looks like this:

```yaml
lnd-gateway:
  image: lnd-gateway
  container_name: lnd-gateway
  build: ./services/lnd-gateway/
  env_file: ./services/lnd-gateway/.env.docker
  volumes:
    - shared_lightning_creds:/shared:ro
  depends_on:
    - lnd
  ports:
    # host:container
    - "4040:80"
  command: ["yarn", "start:prod"]
```

For brevity we won't over-elaborate on things already described in previous
pages, but there are a few things to note:

```yaml
depends_on:
  - lnd
```

Just like our `lnd` service "depends on" `btcd`, this `lnd-gateway` service
depends on `lnd`. docker-compose is smart, so dependencies of dependencies will
be started up when you run a service. So if you type `docker-compose up
lnd-gateway`, it will start `btcd` first, then `lnd`, then `lnd-gateway`.

```yaml
volumes:
  - shared_lightning_creds:/shared:ro
```

Note the existence of a volume here. This `shared_lightning_creds` volume was
first seen in the `lnd` description in `docker-compose.yaml`. It's used to
share credentials generated by `lnd` to `lnd-gateway` for use when
`lnd-gateway` makes gRPC calls to `lnd` - in production only. (We'll get to why 
prod only in the [Environment](#Environment) section below.)

```yaml
command: ["yarn", "start:prod"]
```

Our startup command works differently here. Whereas with `btcd` and `lnd` we
pointed to custom shell scripts to call the node executables with flags, here
we see `["yarn", "start:prod"]`. We'll break down what that means in the
[Startup Script](#StartupScript) section below, but for now just note it. 

<a name="Environment" />

### 1.3 Environment

Like in `btcd` and `lnd`, there is a sample env file at
`services/lnd-gateway/.env.sample` we can take a look at to see what variables
are necessary.

Note that for each environment in the sample, there are not only different
values, but different keys, too. For example, in the development section we see
this var:

```dotenv
LND_BASE64_CERT=
```

But in the prod section we see this one:

```dotenv
LND_CERT_PATH=
```

Since we have different env var values for running as a local process
(development) vs running in a container (pseudo-production), we are going to
use two different .env files.

We have `.env.local` to use when we're running as a local process, and
`.env.docker` for running as a container.

#### 1.3.1 .env.local

Because `.env.local` files are strictly for development, they'll never be
already-present in the project. You'll need to create it yourself.

```dotenv
LND_HOST=0.0.0.0:10009
PORT=4040
LND_BASE64_CERT=<some_value_here>
LND_BASE64_MACAROON=<some_value_here>
```

`LND_HOST` is the URI that our `lnd` instance is accessible at.

`PORT` is the port on our local host that this service will be accessible at.

`LND_BASE64_CERT` is the actual whole value of the `tls.cert` credential file
generated by `lnd`, converted into base64. Read about how to generate it in
this guide: [Generating base64 lnd creds](generating-base64-lnd-creds.md).

`LND_BASE64_MACAROON` is the actual whole value of the `admin.macaroon`
credential file generated by `lnd`, converted into base64. Read about how to
generate it in this guide:
[Generating base64 lnd creds](generating-base64-lnd-creds.md).

#### 1.3.2 .env.docker

```dotenv
LND_HOST=lnd:10009
PORT=80
LND_CERT_PATH=/shared/tls.cert
LND_MACAROON_PATH=/shared/admin.macaroon
```

`LND_HOST` is the URI that our `lnd` instance will be accessible at _from
within the `lnd-gateway` docker-container_. Note the value: `lnd:10009`. When
docker-compose starts `lnd`, it also creates a host named `lnd` that points to
it, accessible from other docker containers.

`PORT` is the port _within the docker container_ that the service will be
accessible at. Remember that we map this port to a different one on our host
machine in docker-compose:

```yaml
ports:
  # host:container
  - "4040:80"
```

`LND_CERT_PATH` is the path to the certificate created by `lnd` that we need to
make gRPC calls to `lnd`. In both `lnd` and `lnd-gateway`, we map the `/shared`
directory to a shared volume, so they can both read and write to that same
location.

When using docker, it is easier to use a shared volume like this rather than
generate base64 versions of the credentials because: (1) generating the creds
is a step that takes time, and (2) if we need to rotate the creds for some
reason, we won't need to worry about base64-ing them again since just pointing
to the file location will already be the equivalent of using the new values.

`LND_MACAROON_PATH` is the path to the admin macaroon file, another credential
file created by `lnd`, also used for gRPC calls, also placed in the shared
volume.

<a name="StartupScript" />

### 1.4 Startup Script

In our `docker-compose.yaml` we saw that our startup command is this:

```yaml
command: ["yarn", "start:prod"]
```

What does it mean?

If you supply multiple arguments in the command array, they'll just be pieced
together on the command line as one command. So in the container we'll really
be running `yarn start:prod`.

[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) is a package manager for javascript, like the
older [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), both frequently used in conjunction with
[node](https://nodejs.org/), a tool for running local javascript processes
outside of the browser.

When we execute `yarn start:prod`, we're calling the `yarn` program and passing
`start:prod` as a flag or sub-command, specifying the name of a "script". Yarn
looks in the "scripts" section of our `package.json` file to find a definition
for `start:prod`.

In the `package.json` file you'll see this part:

```json
"scripts": {
  "start:dev": "NODE_ENV=development babel-node server.js",
  "start:prod": "NODE_ENV=production babel-node server.js"
}
```

In this section `start:prod` maps to `NODE_ENV=production babel-node server.js`.
So when we run `yarn start:prod`, we're really ultimately running our server
script, `server.js`. In this case `NOD_ENV=production` is just a prefix that's
setting the `NODE_ENV` environment variable at command execution time, and
`babel-node` is technically the program we're executing. `babel-node` takes
`server.js` as an argument and then manipulates it to let us use some more
modern javascript features which aren't valid by default, then runs it.

<a name="CommandLine" />

### 1.5 Command Line

There is no command line for `lnd-gateway`. Our program inside the container
is just one file - `server.js`. It's not complicated enough to justify a CLI
for. If we want to query it, we'll just query it over HTTP in the browser.
Note that `server.js` sets up a `/heartbeat` path just for checking if it's up
and running, if you need to.

<a name="RunningInDevelopment" />

## 2. Running in Development

> 💡 There are multiple ways to run this process in development

Because we are not just wrapping up an already-existing executable into a 
container like we were did for `btcd` and `lnd`, we have more options here.

`btcd` and `lnd` should always be run as containers because they are
essentially pieces that we consider to be maintained separately by others and
which only need to be configured for our environment to run properly. We'll
never be touching their code. Running them in containers ensures their
isolation from our local development environment, and sets a clear expectation
for how we can interact with them.

`lnd-gateway` however is the first process with code that is actually written
as part of this project and can be edited. We may want to make a change and
then see that change reflected quickly. For this reason we'd definitely like
to run our server code locally sometimes, rather than always having to build
it into a container and bring the container up.

For that reason the preferred way to run `lnd-gateway` is locally, not as a
container - unless:

1. We're specifically testing that building and running the container works.
2. We're focused on working on a separate service, and we'd like to bring
   `lnd-gateway` up and down in orchestration with other services for
   simplicity.

### 2.1 Running as a local process

First remember to create your `.env.local`.

Next, your `lnd-gateway` must have the proper credentials for talking to `lnd`,
and those credentials need to be put into the `.env.local` that you create. See
how to do that in this guide:
[Generating base64 lnd creds](generating-base64-lnd-creds.md).

Once that's done, run this:

```
yarn start:dev
```

The local process should start and you should see a couple lines like this,
printed from the container:

```
listening on port 80
If this process is running in a container, it may be mapped to a different host port.
```

Note that we are using `start:dev` here, not `start:prod` as mentioned above
and which is called from inside the container. These scripts set the `NODE_ENV`
environment variable differently, which affects how credentials for `lnd` are
expected to be defined in other environment variables.

Read more back in the [Environment](#Environment) section.

### 2.2 Running with docker-compose

Run this to build the `lnd-gateway` container:

```shell script
docker-compose build lnd-gateway
```

Run this command to bring the container up:

```shell script
docker-compose up lnd-gateway
```

The container should start and you should see a couple lines like this, printed
from the container:

```
web | listening on port 80
web | If this process is running in a container, it may be mapped to a different host port.
```